custom ami and as we mentioned
last week ami is a template that
contains the software configuration
the operating system the web server
application the application file
so if you want to create for example
multiple instances
with the same configuration then you
create
um the multiple instances
from a single ami the instance
is a virtual server it's the hardware of
your host
computer
and they are different and capabilities
they are different in memory they are
different in
cpu number and the network performance
so you have to choose the
instance that suits your need
today we will talk about uh elastic bean
stock
let me share share my screen uh i think
i already did it
okay okay so
what we will perform today we will uh
launch
a symbol application a default
application
that is provided by aws elastic bin
store
and we will look at the health of the
environment
and we will look at the different
parameters associated
with this environment we will launch
a custom application a new version
application
and elastic means environment
perform the objective tree you need to
download a zip folder
that is available in canvas so if you um
login to get to campus and
select module then go to week four
under a week for eb lab you can find you
can find
a zip folder this is for the sample
a custom application for the for the
custom application
and it's written in python so just
download it
and keep it as it is zip folder don't
unzip it because we will upload it as a
zip folder
so click on it and download it
why we need to do application and
elastic install
because elastic pin stock manage
the infrastructure for your application
using elastic bean stock you can deploy
and manage applications in aws cloud
without having to learn about the
infrastructure
that runs those applications
elastic bin stock will manage the
application
and they will create the resources that
are needed for your application
on your behalf
they support different different
applications i mean different
application files different languages
like java.net
php python
you also can create multiple
environments
in your application why you need to
create multiple environments
maybe for a development stage
or for distinct process like if you want
to
list the new features before they are
pushed into
the protection or you want to um
update your platform branch
or your platform
so you can use
what we call green blue environments
what environment environment is
the heart of your application
it's a collection of aws resources
running
um an application version
when you create an environment elastic
bean stock provisioning the resources
needed to run
the application so inside the in
the environment you can have multiple
instances
you can have the auto scanning group the
road balancer
and this environment can
run in a single time
so we have the elastic means application
and we can have
multiple environments
we have two types of environment we have
the old server environment
this is for um to run the standard
applications
to handle the http requests from clients
um
usually over first 80
and we have worker environment
the worker environment like if you have
um
uh applications if your application
performs operations
that take a long time to complete then
you can offload two
tasks to dedicated worker environment
uh because worker environment running
human presses
on each instance that reads from the
queue
so to ensure uh the high performance and
to ensure that your application
stays responsive responsive under load
you can assign those tasks
and you can put it in the queue the
assembly queue
they call it an um an aws simple queue
service and the email process will
always listen
and uh will perform um will assign these
tasks
to um available instances
so to ensure the high performance and to
keep your application responsive you as
a developer
you may use worker environment but for
today's
lab we will select web server
environment
in the next lab we will select worker
today's um all the objectives and all
objectives we will select web server
environment this is as introduction for
the lab
now we will perform that the services
we have three objectives
to perform let me login to
aos educate
my classrooms
go to classroom
here you can see the session time
if your session expire expires
don't worry just log in again to resume
your work
so we have three hours if your decision
expires then log in again and these are
the credits that are available
under your account
i click an iws console
then i click on services
under compute you will find elastic in
stock
please notice that elastic green stock
is ap
not abs because abs is
elastic a block store
it's for storage purposes
so um plastic install
is ap
we don't have any applications we don't
have an environment
now we will create our first application
using
web server environment
click on create application
we have to enter a name for our
application
i will enter my first application
you can give it a name
and if you want to add tax you have up
to 50
tags you have
you can you can add 47 tags
because um aws will create
three tags for you
that's tags are useful if you have
multiple environments
um then you can like group and filter
your environments
for a platform select the platform that
suits your application
i i will select php this is because this
is a default application this is the one
that is
provided by aws you can select any
platform
and you can select also the branch
depends on your application file
and the version
then for the application code you either
select
sample or upload your code if you want
to use the default
application that is provided by aws then
select sample
application if you want to upload your
code and you want to launch
a castle application then you have to
select upload
your code for the first objective we
will launch
the default application the sample
application
so select sample application
what we did we entered the application
name
we clicked on applications then we
clicked
on create application
we entered application name
you can add tax we selected the platform
you can go with any platform
depends on your application
select the branch the version then
select sample application because we
want to use the default one the one that
is provided by aws elastic
and we will not uh configure more
options
uh we will configure more options and
then explore
so we will click on create application
now the application um is being created
you can see that the console um tracks
tracks the progress and uh display
events messages
like whenever you interact with your
environment or
when the resources are created or
modified
or changed they will display
um a message and a message in the
console
at this time when you create the
application they also will create an
environment for you
and they will provisioning the resources
that are needed for your application
you can check that there are no
instances till now they didn't launch
any instance
it needs little time to launch an
instance for your application
and the application health is pending
they are creating the auto scaling and
the security group
so you don't have to worry about the
infrastructure you just
upload your application and ap
will manage your application they will
do it on your behalf
they are creating the resources to run
your application
if we uh click on services i'll click an
ec2
we can see that we now we have one
instance running
this is the one that is launched to run
your application
we didn't create it as last time as last
lab
they did it in our behalf they launched
an instance
for our application to run our
application
and if you click in instance
you can see that this is the one my
first application i
i named my first application
and this is the instances the instance
that they launched for our application
is still initializing
go back to my elastic install
still the application is bending
this is the one that you are creating
you can check the time
[Music]
it's still bending it needs um sometimes
to be created
right click on the environment now it's
created
the overall health is okay
and the running version is sample
application we use the default
application that's provided by aws
you can upload and deploy a new version
by clicking and upload and deploy and
then you choose the file
the application file
the version label should be unique
for your application file and you can
see that we have one instance running
for our application
the platform we selected php and
these are the branch and the version
if i click on the url
this is the sample application that is
created by aws
this is your first application
and i noticed that the first part of
your application is the application name
i'll say the first part of url
is your application name
and if you want to terminate the
environment you can simply click on
actions
and terminate environment
you can have multiple environment
and elastic means application
and they can all run in a single time
so if you click on application versions
we have
a sample application
this is the one that is provided by aws
and you can also delete it by select
the application source and delete
i click in my first application
i can see all the applications that i
have and environments now the
environment
health is okay
and the source is sample application and
this is the url
i go back to my environment
you can also use the tabs at the top
of the base
and you can refresh using the refresh
button
and these are the events that are
related to your environment
like this we carried out the first
objective
we launched sample application at
default application
and you notice that when we
created the application the aws
created the environment to run this
application
and inside the environment they also
created resources
they created the instance they uh create
them auto scaling
they create the security groups the load
balancer
they are creating the resources
provisioning the resources that are
needed on your behalf
that's why it's called elastic elastic
beans management console
because they manage your application
you can see also on the left side panel
that we have
parameters list and we have different
parameters
related to our environment
i will hold on for five minutes if you
want to
try to launch a sample application
so the environment is the heart of your
application
as a collection of the aws resources
please perform the first objective
launch assemble application
[Music]
hmm
okay
[Music]
hmm
okay shall i complete
did you finish
yes all good okay thanks
oh yeah i think we have a question
yeah it's platform as services
okay so we created a sample application
and we want now to check the parameters
so if you click on go to environment
then it will open the url for you
if i click on configuration
you can see that we have different
options
and these options are grouped by
category
if you want to add more options or edit
options under this category just simply
click on edit
and choose whatever you need
we have different categories software
instances capacity
security
so you can change the options
a quick click on logs
[Music]
then you can request locks for your
instance
or you can read for logs or you can
select the 100 lines that
the most commonly 100 lines
from deluxe files
and you can see that this look by is for
a specific instance
this is the instance that is launched
for your environment
we have one instance for this
environment
and you can download the log file this
is good for
troubleshooting
and if i click on health
okay and then loss yeah click on health
you can see the overall health for your
environment
you can see that um the health for the
instance is okay
you can filter um the health by the
health type
for example if you have bending
instances
uh if you have warning
the only one that we have now is okay
so you can uh filter
by the status of your instance
if you click on the instance
then you can see the instance id the
instance type
and the availability zone
if you want to terminate this instance
you can select your instance and go to
instance actions and terminate
and you can refresh
[Music]
if i click on monitoring
then you can see uh how your
environment's
health change changes over time
using cloud watch metrics
you can add an overview by click on edit
and select the source
select the resource and select the
metric
that you want to add and click on add
then save
you can see the cpu utilization target
response time in microsecond
the maximum network output
and if you want to uh visualize it
and you can you can check the graphs
also by
using cloudwatch matrix you can add also
metrics by click on edit you can add
more graphs
select the resources
and select the metric
[Music]
then you click on save you can change
the duration and the interval
so by monitoring you can monitor
the health of your environment
using cloud watch metrics
you can always also refer go back to
your environment by using the tabs
at the top of the page
we will not configure alarms we will do
it next week
this is for auto scaling
and we don't have any update if you have
update you can manage it to
manage it using managed updates
and uh to see the events that are
related
uh to your environment
you can click on events
that console uh display or outwards
event messages whenever you interact
with the environment
or whenever resources
change
or created you can also
filter the message type
if you have like anyone message or error
message
you can filter it
and you can also refresh
and if you want to add tags for your
resources you can
click on tags to filter and group your
resources if you have multiple
environments and
multiple resources
you have up to 47 tax drop up to 50 tax
but you can add 47 tags
[Music]
so now we have one application
one sample application and we have one
environment
and one instance running in this
in the third objective we want to
launch a custom application we want to
use our file
file our application file we will use
the zip folder that is available in
canvas
and we will upload it as a zip folder
so when you create an application they
will create also an
environment for you
and they will create and they provision
all the resources needed
to run your application that's why it's
called management console
they will take care about the
infrastructure of your application
okay you will hold on for two minutes if
you want to
go through the parameters
sorry i have a question yeah if we want
to
take a look in the events of the
application like a
console print or something like that we
have to go
to the logs instead of events right
uh the events will
give you um
uh events will give you like uh delivers
um
a near real time um of the system events
that
it will describe the changes in aws
resources
yeah it is more managed
in the perspective of the management of
the environment
from the the application and the
anaesthetist
yeah circumstances yeah you can like
monitor or
restore these looks files and you can
look to um
also for troubleshooting or maybe also
you can um see when this instance is
goes down so it's like for a particular
instance you will have a look file for a
specific instance
okay thank you
hello i have a question as well yeah
sure
yeah uh first of all when i created the
application right
uh it was showing something called
target group so what are target groups
yeah this we will cover later this is
for
load balancer following gloves uh
uh we will configure how to do the load
balancer like if you have multiple
instances
okay got it and one one more thing uh
when i go into the monitoring section
it shows some requests by count
some requests sorry when i go into the
monitoring section it shows
a parameter is there called some request
by count
yeah what is that
um i'm not sure about it
um there's a graph also if you uh scroll
down
you can see it some request account yeah
um i'm not sure really about it if you
want i will look for it and
um i will you know um the next club
in the next level thank you
if anyone um if you have an idea what
are some requests
maybe we have um
i think that it's really curved into the
http request
maybe you can count that
and you have to you have the ability to
take a metrics about it
http http get and post requests
maybe could be yeah thank you
for sharing the information with us
thank you
maybe we will uh read more about it and
um
we will talk about it next clap but i
think maybe it's correct for the http
request because the
uh the the server uh for the application
is a web server
so it handles the http request from the
clients
so maybe this one counts the http
request yeah
okay let's perform
um the last objective
we want to create a custom application
to launch a custom application
so we will select uh the application
name my first application we will click
on the application
my first application
and we will click on create a new
environment
if you want to delete an application you
can go to actions
and delete application
if you want to terminate
instance um you have
um like i mean if you want to
uh don't need the application then
terminate the application itself delete
the application itself
why because if you just like terminated
the instances
they will launch and replace the
instance for you
because it's a management console they
are take care of your
um infrastructure so even if you
terminated the instance
then they will replace this instance and
they will launch a new instance for you
so if you want if you don't need the
application delete the application
you can delete it from actions and
delete application
okay now we want to create a custom
application we created sample
application
we want to create a custom application
we will click on create a new
environment
then we are asked to select the
environment here
if you want to run a standard
application then we will choose web
server environment if we want
if we have our applications perform
operations or tasks that
resource consuming or takes long time to
complete
then we will select worker environment
to ensure that our application stays
responsive under load because um
these processes are or these operations
will be an amazon symbol q service
and the demon process will always listen
and read from this queue
but for today's lab we will select web
server environment we want to run a
standard application
so select web server environment
we clicked on my first application
then we clicked on create a new
environment
then we selected the web server
and click on select
so um the application name
is our application so now we will have
uh we want to create another environment
we already have one environment to run
the sample application
and we have one instance in this
environment
now we want to create another
to run the custom application
so the domain you have to enter the
domain the dns
should be unique because your
environment will be available globally
so check the availability of your domain
for example i will enter um
[Music]
and i will check the availability i
think
yeah it's available and you can
give your environment a meaningful
description
then you should choose the platform your
platform should
suit your application and because our
application
the application is on canvas is written
in
python as mentioned here the custom
application
is in python so we will select
a python platform
so it depends on your application file
what this subfolder contains it's not
only contain
um the application file it also
contains configuration from lws so you
are not
uploading the application file only you
are
uploading also the configurations from
aws
we will select the branch for also the
zip folder on canvas you have to select
linux because
it's built for linux not for linux 2. if
you tried
linux2 if you try linux2 it will give
you error
so you should select linux because
the zip folder in canvas it's written uh
in python and it's built for linux
so please select linux
[Music]
then we have to select the application
code
either we want to go with the sample
application the default one
that's provided by aws or we want to
upload
our code we want to launch custom
application
so what we did we entered a name
for our environment
uh now i think this one it already
given by aws we entered a domain on the
not environment name
we enter the domain and we select the
platform and the platform branch
python and python for linux
and we now we want to upload the code
the version label it's a unique name for
your application source
for your application code
you have to click on choose file
and select the zip folder
it will give you a message that your
file is successfully
[Music]
uploaded
and we will click on create environment
okay i will do it again i went to my
first application
then i clicked on create a new
environment then i select observer
environment
select
then i give a domain
[Music]
and select a platform we should select
python because it's written in python
then the branch linux is filled for
linux
and upload your code
and choose the file
then click on create environment
now they will create the resources
to run your application
um
you can see that they are creating the
security group
[Music]
we clicked on application versions
we have now two version the sample
application
and the custom application
[Music]
but still we don't have um so the
the environment is not created yet
environments
[Music]
still grey
and this is the platform branch a
platform
that we select and the platform branch
for linux
and what the environment here is web
server
uh still the
environment
as needs time to create
not created yet
waiting for the instances they didn't
launch an
instance yet for our environment they
created the auto scaling group
and the security group
if we check the ec2
services elastic compute cloud
then we can see that we have two
instance two instances running
they um they are launching an
instance for our environment this is for
the first um the sample application the
first application
and this is for the custom application
still initializing
[Music]
yeah now it's created
this the status is green the health is
the green
if i select the environment
then we can see the overall health of
our environment
and we can also see the running version
we can upload a new version using upload
and deploy
and you can choose the file
we can see also that the current number
of instances for this environment is one
and the platform that we selected is
python
for linux if you want to delete this
environment you can
click on actions and terminate the
environment
and these are the events that are
related to our environment
you can also check the monitoring
or the health dialogues for this
environment
so it's a management console they are
creating the resources
that are needed to run your application
they are the caring of your
infrastructure
uh we still have time so
we can um and as an extra task
we can delete an instance
and see how they will manage
um launching a new instance for us
before i do the extra task if you have a
question please go ahead
okay then um i will go to services
to prove you that it's a management
console
answer ec2
ac2
we have now two instance instances
running one for the sample application
and one for the custom application
because uh we have two environments
so i want to delete one of the instances
i will delete the one for the custom
application
and see how they will manage and
launching
and replacing the instance that we will
terminate so i will click on this one
and i will delete it terminated
terminate instance
okay it's shutting down we can go back
to
elastic beanstalk
and refresh to check the health of our
environment
i still need time to update we can also
check from here
and check the health
um at this time until it's update
you can practice the objective tree
because it
it needs some times to update the
health stats the status
i will keep refreshing while you are
practicing objective three
okay
you can see that the health now is
yellow
if we click on events
you can trace by one messages
you can see that the transition
of the health the health i mean the
health
transitions from green to yellow
and is expecting to have
one instance but the actual is zero
because we terminated the instances the
instance
now they are adding an instance to your
environment
you can also check that time
and they are adding a auto scaling group
if you have um many messages you can go
also to the h2
there is one the recent ones
will be first
[Music]
okay so if i go back to my environment
and refresh yeah it's now green
so even if you um terminated the
instance from the environment
they will replace it and they will
launch a new instance for you
so if you don't need the application
delete the application if you delete the
application
then everything under this application
will be deleted the environments the
instances
all the resources under this application
are related to this application
will be deleted
do you have any questions
so what we did today we performed three
objectives
[Music]
this one is not updating we created two
environments
one for um
we created two environments one for the
sample application
and one for the custom application
and we the environment here we select
we selected web server because we want
to handle um
running or we want to run the standard
app applications
and the platform it should suit your
application
and these are the url we can check the
url for the custom application and you
can notice that
[Music]
this is the uh domain
domain name that we entered when we
created the environment
and it should be unique because it's
available globally
okay
you can also um check the application
name
these two environments are related to
one application
one up one elastic bins application
and inside this application we have two
environments
and each one of this environment has its
own resources
and instances
and you can um configure the parameters
of your environment
you can monitoring the health the health
of
the health of your environment and
check the graphs using a cloud
watch metrics or you can also
check all the events related to your
environment you can download deluxe file
for your instance
and you can change configuration
by using the options and that are
grouped by
categories by category
[Music]
if you want to delete the application
you just
click on the application select your
application
and go to actions and click on
delete app application by deleting
application you are deleting all
the resources don't delete the instance
and the environment because they will
replace it with a new one
so if you don't want to be charged
delete your application
how to delete it click on applications
then select your application
and then click on actions and delete
application
they will ask for you uh for your
application name you have to enter your
application name
if you proceed with this action the
following environments will be
terminated so then all the environments
with this application will be deleted
and all the resources will be deleted
and here is the application name you
have to
retype it
and click on delete
you can see the info message
your application is being deleted
okay refresh takes all those times to
uh update
okay like by um by this you are deleting
all the environments and all
um the resources
any question regarding today's
lab
okay like this we
completed the objectives the three
objectives
next week we will complete an elastic
bean stock
but we will create environment using
worker environment
not web server environment and we will
configure more options
so see you next week
i have only one um
comment regarding uh assignment one
as an advice don't narrow your
topic don't narrow your scope expand
your scope so
you will have enough informations
[Music]
and it's due i think 16th of
april uh
you should be working as a group of
three
that's it thank you for today and
see you next week do you have a question
any question
sorry i have a question regarding the
essay yes one
yeah because for example if we want to
choose
let's see a scalability or really
reliability in cloud computing
yeah but you know if we choose that
topic
we can overlap another topic like
multi-tenancy so
what we can do in this scenarios because
it's the assessment specified that we
only have to choose
one single so
those topics are overlapping each other
so i don't know what to do in that
case let me
so you want to choose scalability
just an example or in my case i
like to choose multi-tenancy but
multi-tenancy
is highly tied with
scalability yeah as
and also security for example and uh
bribes
yeah yeah that's that's why i'm i'm not
sure what to do
in that case because you you start
talking about multi-tenancy and
yeah a lot of users and then you have to
talk about security
so i don't know yeah but
but like your title and your um
abstract your overview
should be clear oriented to
multi-tenancy for example
and then you can start talking about one
of the
let me check in
in the findings you can talk about
security
regarding multi-tenancy yeah
okay yeah it's fine it's fine but um
you have to uh
your title uh should reflect
what you are talking about yeah
and uh when you talk also about the
uh the significance also be clear
um and um when you are addressing the
problems and uh when you are
like um explaining about the
current uh solutions so should be
related to your title or to the topic
you are talking about
not to the um to the um
like the the general idea or the general
title
it should be specific uh to your
uh problem all right
did you get me yeah yeah yeah sure
it's okay if they overlap but
your content inside your report will um
show us in what direction you are
this is what i mean
hello uh i have another question yeah
do we need to get our topics approved
before we can go ahead or
no no okay like if you want to uh
select from the topics that are already
on
the assignment or you want to select a
different topic
it's fine as long as it's related to a
cloud yeah okay
okay
but if you are not sure you can also ask
dr faruq
if you have doubt you can ask dr faro
right because i was planning to include
a case study but i wasn't sure if that's
the part of the report so i just wanted
to be
sure yeah so it's better maybe to ask dr
faro
perfect thank you nowadays
okay do you have any more question
okay see you um see you next week
um and um have a nice week and all
thank you thank you bye
bye
oh